---
layout:     post
title:      "Notes of Xiang et al. 2018"
subtitle:   "https://doi.org/10.3847/1538-4365/aad237"
date:       2020-03-14 21:00:00
author:     "Jordan"
header-img: "img/post-bg-19-01-24.jpg"
catalog: true
tags:

    - 天文
---
<head>
    <script src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML" type="text/javascript"></script>
    <script type="text/x-mathjax-config">
        MathJax.Hub.Config({
            tex2jax: {
            skipTags: ['script', 'noscript', 'style', 'textarea', 'pre'],
            inlineMath: [['$','$']]
            }
        });
    </script>
</head>
---



##  3D stellar mass distribution of the Galactic disk

Data:  0.93 million main-sequence turnoff and subgiant stars from LAMOST surveys.

Abstract Results:

1. All stellar populations younger than 10 Gyr exhibit strong disk flaring.
2. Asymmetries and wave-like oscillations are presented in both the radial and vertical direction, with strength varying with stellar populations.
3. Determined midplane stellar mass density raises doubts on the current estimate of local dark matter density.
4. The radial distribution of surface mass density yields a disk scale length evolving from ∼4 kpc for the young populations to ∼2 kpc for the old populations. 
5. The disk has a peak star formation rate (SFR) changing from 6–8 Gyr ago at the inner part to 4–6 Gyr ago at the outer part, indicating an inside-out assemblage history. The 0–1 Gyr population yields a recent disk total SFR of  $1.96 \pm 0.12 M_{\odot} yr^{-1}$.

## Data 

0.93 million stars selected in the *$T_{eff}-M_V$* diagram out of 4.5 million stars observed by the LAMOST Galactic surveys.

### Parameterization

Matching stellar paraters with $Y^2$ isochrones using a. Bayesian method.  

$T_{eff}$, $M_G$, [Fe/H] (Z), [$\alpha$/Fe]  $\rightarrow$ stellar mass ($M$), age ($\tau$)



## Methodology

The **stellar mass function**  in a given volume of the Galactic disk is a combined result of in situ 

* star formation & stellar evolution
* stellar migration. 

At any given position (with limited volume) of the disk number distribution $P(l, b, d)$  as a function of $M$, $Z$, and age $\tau$.  
$$
N(M, Z, \tau) = N_{in}(M, Z, \tau) + N_k(M, Z,\tau)
$$
  

where $N_{in}$ represents stars formed in situ and $N_k$ represents stars that have migrated to their current position owing to a kinematic process.   
$$
N_{in}(M,Z,\tau)=\psi(\tau) \phi(Z|\tau) \xi(M_{ini}|Z,\tau)F(M|M_{ini},Z,\tau)
$$
  



$\psi$: SFH, $\phi$: chemical enrichment history, $\xi$: stellar IMF, 

Hence 
$$
N_{k}(M,Z,\tau)= \int \int \int \psi'(\tau) \phi'(Z|\tau) \xi'(M_{ini}|Z,\tau) \times F(M|M_{ini},Z,\tau) K_{P' \rightarrow P }(M_{ini},Z,\tau)dl'db'dd'
$$
$K_{P' \rightarrow P }(M_{ini},Z,\tau)$ describes a  a function to describe the probability that stars migrated from $P′(l′, b′, d′)$ to $P(l, b, d)$. 

### Assumptions

* the IMF is universal across the Galactic disk, not sensitively depending on $Z$ in the disk volume.
* stellar migration due to a kinematic process does not prefer special stellar mass, so that the kinematic term in Equation is a constant function of stellar mass. 

So for a stellar population of a given $\tau$ and $Z$ in a given volume, the number (and of course mass) distributions of both the in situ formed and the migrated stars are determined by only the universal: 

* IMF
* stellar evolution process

**For mono-age and mono-metallicity populations, there is no need to impose assumptions on the SFH, the chemical enrichment history, and the kinematical dynamical history** 

### Determination of Complete Volume

Define a complete volume:  


$$
m_r^B - min\{M_r^B\} - A_r^B < 5\log{D} -5 < m_r^F - max\{M_r^F\} - A_r^F
$$
  

where $D$ is the distance of the star,  $m_r^B$ and  $m_r^F$ are the bright and the faint limiting apparent magnitudes, respectively, min{$M_r^B$} and max{$M_r^F$} are the minimal bright and the maximal faint limiting absolute magnitudes for stars of all populations (age and metallicity) of concern, respectively, $A_r^B$ and $A_r^F$ are the $r$-band interstellar extinctions at the near and the farther side of the complete distance, respectively.   

  
$$
D_{min} = 10^{(m_r^B - min \{M_r^B\} - A_r^B +5)/5}
$$
  
$$
D_{max} = 10^{(m_r^F - min \{M_r^F\} - A_r^F +5)/5}
$$


## Some Details

2D density map in the disk $R-Z$ plane:  

$0.1 \times 0.05$ kpc   

$0.05 \times 0.025$ kpc



### Stellar Mass Density at the Solar Radius

An estimate of the midplane disk stellar mass density at the solar radius, average measurements within 7.8 $<R<$ 8.2 kpc and $\vline Z \vline<$ 50 pc.   



### Star Formation History of the Disk

$$
\mathrm{SFR}=\frac{\sum_{\mathrm{ini}}^{*}}{\Delta t}
$$

$\sum_{\mathrm{ini}}^{*}$ is the initial stellar mass formed in a given time span $\Delta t$. 



